---
layout: post
title: Making Friends with Anxiety - a comic
---

This page contains a comic about anxiety.  It describes a little of my
own experience, and one of the ways I've come to understand anxiety and how
to deal with it.  It may not be for everyone, but
I hope it's useful to some - in understanding their own anxiety,
someone else's, or most importantly, treating yourself with kindness
and love.

[comic]

[pdf copy]

## thanks and inspiration

* My comic enthusiast friends: Lydia, Katie Z., and Sandy.  If they hadn't
shared their love of comics/graphic novels with me, this comic definitely wouldn't exist!  
* Lynda Barry, whose [One Hundred Demons][demons] opened
my eyes to the power of comics to weave together the light and dark of our stories,
and to spark our creativity
* Dan Roam's book [Blah Blah Blah: What to Do When Words Don't Work][blah] was also a subconscious inspiration
of sorts.  
* And of course, my many friends, family, and counselors who
have walked alongside me. In *Will and Spirit* Gerald May sums it up well: "At the outset,
before anything else, 'I can do it' must be replaced by 'I cannot do it alone.'"

## notes

I drew/wrote this comic in the spring of 2016, although I'd been sitting on the
idea for much longer.  I was prompted by #BellLetsTalk on my twitter feed to
finally write down and share.  

In some ways, I've outgrown this metaphor -
it strikes me now as a little too pat.  But that's just a sign of
growth (I hope) and moving on to the next thing.  

[demons]: http://www.amazon.com/One-Hundred-Demons-Lynda-Barry/dp/1570614598
[blah]: http://www.amazon.com/Blah-What-When-Words-Dont/dp/1591844592
